# REACT - REDUX TUTORIAL

## How to install redux in our react project

1. Redux alone
npm install @reduxjs/toolkit react-redux

2. Redux + Plain JS template
npx create-react-app my-app --template redux

3. Redux + TypeScript template
npx create-react-app my-app --template redux-typescript

## redux notes

1. createSlice
This is a helper method that simplifies the process of creating actions and reducers. It takes the name of the slice, initial state, and reducer functions, returns the action creators to be dispatched, and the reducer configures the Redux store. This method also includes an extraReducers field for handling action defined elsewhere, commonly used with createAsyncThunk for writing asynchronous logic. We will talk more about createAsyncThunk shortly. In the counter example app, createSlice was used to create a counter slice with reducers to decrease and increase the counter state. It also includes extra reducers to handle asynchronous action generated by createAsyncThunk.

2. CreateAsyncThunk
With bare Redux, to perform asynchronous tasks we first need to apply a middleware like Redux thunk using the applyMiddleware function. But this is no longer the case for Redux Toolkit since Redux thunk is included by default, allowing us to use createAsyncThunk to write asynchronous logic. The createAsyncThunk method accepts an action type string and a callback function that returns a promise and generates promise lifecycle action types based on the action type string passed, which can then be evaluated in the extraReducers field of createSlice. For the counter-example app, we will generate three action types: pending: counter/fetchCount/pending; fulfilled: counter/fetchCount/fulfilled; and rejected: counter/fetchCount/rejected. After passing the required parameters to createAsyncThunk, it returns a thunk action creator that will run the promise callback and dispatch the lifecycle actions based on the returned promise.

3. configureStore
 As stated in the docs, [configureStore](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/api/configureStore) wraps [createStore](https://redux.js.org/api/createstore) to provide simplified configuration options and good defaults. It can automatically combine our slice reducers, adds whatever Redux middleware we supply, includes redux-thunk by default, and enables the use of the Redux DevTools Extension. This method accepts a single configurations object with multiple properties; the most important is reducer, an object that stores slice reducers, as seen in the counter-example app in src/app/store.js.